JUNE 7, 2007
Today is the last day of sound mixing!!
Exactly one year ago, I arrived in Azerbaijan for the preparation of the shooting.
And exactly today, I am doing the last creative decision for the film.
Compared to the shooting, the post-production went smooth.
My editor Vincent Assmann and me locked the picture cut according to my generous schedule (six month of editing) on February 1, 2007.
The week before we finished editing, we made a screening of the rough-cut with a recruited test-audience at the beautiful Babylon-cinema in Berlin.
The reactions were fabulous. Especially younger women were giving best rates.
February, March and April my sound-guys Martin and Immo created the sound-design of the film.
My biggest struggle was to get the right music.
Composers from Germany, Turkey, Finland and Georgia were producing lay-outs.
But no one created something which I felt was suitable for the film.
Finally I approached the great Shigeru Umebayashi.
He composed some of the finest scores in film history, such as “In the mood for love” and “2046”.
He knew some of my films and was happy to work on “Absurdistan”!
Our first meeting took place on December 23, 2006 in Tokyo.
We watched the film and decided the moments, where music was needed.
End of February I received the first music.
And in April I went to Tokio for the orchestra recordings.
It was a very exiting moment of the process of making this film!
But there was also plenty of work to complete the picture of the film.
In March, colour-correction took place at Elektrofilm-Berlin.
VFX-artist Rudolf Germann created the composite shots with Aya on the rocket and the couple dancing on the water fountain.
I made a casting for the voice over speakers.
We completed two versions of the film.
Russian and German.
Piece by piece, the film came together.
In April 2007 I went to Baku, to meet Reshida Behbudova, the daughter of famous Azerbaijan singer Reshid Behbudov.
She granted me permition to use two of Reshids finest songs for the soundtrack of my film.
It is perfect music for the film, which fits nicely with Umebayashis score.
Beginning of May, we started sound-mixing the film at Studio Babelsberg.
In Europes largest sound-stage, more then 130 tracks were mixed together by Robbie Jaeger and the final Dolby-Digital sound was created.
Here I saw the film the first time complete, reel by reel, scene by scene…
Today we finished the mix.
Now all remains is technical work, such as printing work and subtitling.

NOVEMBER 6, 2006
Last weekend I was in Baku.
My production coordinator Elnura married my art department manager Zaur!
They met at my shooting!
The first evening, they made a party at the beach, with their friends.
My crew from Azerbaijan was there as well.
I was asked to make a speach.
And I was really moved, because without my film, they maybe would have never met!
The second evening Elnura and Zaur made a big party in a place called wedding palace.
It was a more official party with very elegant dressed people, lots of food and drinks.
An orchestra played.
Elnura asked me to dance with her.
I was scared, Zaurs relatives would kill me instantly.
But I survived.

OCTOBER 15, 2006
I finsihed the technical montage of the film.
Together with my editor Vincent Assmann, I spend six weeks looking at every frame of the film, comparing it with the rough cut, which Vincent made during the shooting.
I tend to see all mistakes, but somehow it is a miracle, that all shots, the normal ones and the crazy ones, were filmed this summer.
All I miss is a top shot of the village.
But I have an idea how to do it in Germany....
Now we will start to do the artistic editing process.
To really find the right tone, rhythm and balance between comedy and love story.
I need distance first.
From tommorow I will start editing for one month the documentary about the shooting and only look weekly to what Vincent improved with the cut of the feature film...

AUGUST 27, 2006
The last day of shooting.
We started late at 12.30 pm, as our programme was so little.
We had two shots in the studio set, but two complicated shots.
The big stone fall into the hole.
The team of my Georgian art director Vaja Djalaghania made excellent work.
And at the end of the day we made aerial shooting over the desert of David Garechi.
Actually only my cameramen was allowed to go into the little plane.
At 10 pm we made a party at George Beridzes house.
I was too tired to really get into the mood and also I could not drink, as I drove Max to the airport at 2 am, together with Immo.
Stupid things happened the last days.
The Georgian generator rental company took my camera yesterday away, to get 250 dollars extra from me!
I took the camera back and finished shooting with my battery light.
My production manager apparently got robbed in a bank robbery.
My sound men Martin had a operation in the stomach and will be flown out of the country tommorow by a special plane, as the hospital is not really clean and the doctors can not speak english.
But we managed to finish shooting.
I wait for the material arriving in the laboratory before being happy.

AUGUST 26, 2006
Today we shot the second day at our set construction "underground waterfall".
Our special guest was Rosen, underwater cameramen from Sofia, Bulgaria, with his underwater equipment.
We shot, how Temelko struggles to survive and makes a hole.
Max had a Neopren-suit, but still had to freeze.
In the evening, we shot a scene in the river Kwari, when Max falls into the wild water and is taken away.
It was quite frightening in the darkness.
When I scouted the location during daytime, it seemed more peaceful.
But in the night it was wilder then expected.
But everything went fine.
One more day and we are finished!

AUGUST 22-25, 2006
Tuesday
We have no camera and no film.
Everything is stuck at the border.
I am fustratred.
We celebrated Kristynas last day.
It was a nice dinner, which cheered us up a little.
Wednesday
I cannot wait, so I rented a camera in Tbilisi.
We went to Kutaisi and will shoot early morning in the caves.
Thursday
The shooting in the cave went great.
I decided to return to Tbilisi one day earier, as we shot everything in a well accessible cave.
The difficult to reach cave is cancelled.
Friday
Our first day in the big cave construction.
Shooting went fine.
But my line producer got robbed today in front of the bank.
And my sound man Martin went to Hospital to get operated in the stomach.
I am worried... 
Today we shot the second day at our set construction "underground waterfall".
Our special guest was Rosen, underwater cameramen from Sofia, Bulgaria, with his underwater equipment.
We shot, how Temelko struggles to survive and makes a hole.
Max had a Neopren-suit, but still had to freeze.
In the evening, we shot a scene in the river Kwari, when Max falls into the wild water and is taken away.
It was quite frightening in the darkness.
When I scouted the location during daytime, it seemed more peaceful.
But in the night it was wilder then expected.
But everything went fine.
One more day and we are finished!

AUGUST 20, 2006
Most of the crew left Seki on Saturday evening after the shoot. Half to Baku, half to Tbilisi.
Only my actor Max, my cameramen Georgi, his assistant Marlen and me stayed one more night.
We left Sunday morning and shot some nice scenes in the desert.
A crew of three was really a nice change after all these weeks with so many people around! We arrived in Tbilisi at midnight.
From Wednesday we will shoot our four last days...

AUGUST 18/19, 2006
Friday started bad.
At 4 pm not one of the four things I needed were on place (camera, crane, windmaschine, parachute).
The driver for the windmachine actually had an accident and did not arrive before darkness.
I shot the final frame of the film with the crane but could not do much else.
I finished at midnight as we had our wrap party of our shooting in Azerbaijan.
I could not really get into party mood, as I had to wake up at 7 am for reshooting 7 damaged shots on Saturday morning.
We shot much more nice stuff Saturday but failed again to shoot how Aya lands with the parachute in the pool.
The windmachine was not able to blow up the parachute.
Now we are leaving Azerbaijan with one shot missing.
I am exhausted.
Most of the crew left Seki on Saturday evening after the shoot.
Half to Baku, half to Tbilisi.
Only my actor Max, my cameramen Georgi, his assistant Marlen and me stayed one more night.
We left Sunday morning and shot some nice scenes in the desert.
A crew of three was really a nice change after all these weeks with so many people around!
We arrived in Tbilisi at midnight.
From Wednesday we will shoot our four last days...

AUGUST 17, 2006
Today the 11metres high camera crane was back and in full action.
We shot the last and final gondola scenes (4 days by now for a one line sentence in the script).
We could really nicely follow Kristyna with the camera and filmed how she fell into the pool.
Last we shot the scene, when she runs away from the pool.

AUGUST 16, 2006
We are coming slowly to the end of shooting and become slow...
We started to shoot some scenes near the waterpipe.
Nice but nothing special.
In the evening we started scene 110, Aya landing in the pool.
But we just shot the beginning, as for the actual scene we need a 11 m high camera crane, which is coming tommorow.

AUGUST 15, 2006
Today we went to the desert, near a salt lake.
The earth was full of dry cracks.
It was terribly hot.
We wanted to shoot a scene, when all sheeps run away from the sheperd.
We set up the camera on our light truck, run the camera, and the sheeps run away, as if they knew what direction looked best for us...
We then went to the bridge near Sucma. There are 5 - 6 funny big tubes, crossing the valley.
They are looking made for my film: huge, old, rusty, standing on old pillers.
There are cracks and holes.
We shot two scenes there.
I feel really lucky!

AUGUST 14, 2006
A very long shooting day (16 hours). No idea why!
We changed locations, had three camels (including a sweet baby camel), coming from far away!
And we shot two night scenes.
I am tired.
And we are scared, as the laboratory says, some shots from last week have technical problems!!!

AUGUST 12, 2006
We started in the afternoon shooting under a huge water pipe, which is leaking.
The scene is: Temelko makes Aya shower.
It was nice.
Then we shot all night with Max and the donkey.
The donkey refused to walk, which was perfect for the scene.
The lighting took long time and we stopped shooting at 6.30 am.
Speed goes gradually down, I suppose.
One more week in Azerbaijan and then we move for our last week to Georgia.

AUGUST 11, 2006
Today we shot the scene, when Temelko and Aya see a couple making love.
This time, we had a body double for the women, as it needed real nudity.
We filmed then the beginning of the scene, when Max and Kristyna ride on a donkey.
Both have had scenes during the shooting, where they were on high roofs or on flying gondolas, where I always feel happy, when the scenes finished.
The donkey riding was not something I considered dangerous.
But twice they were falling and got hurt! After the first time I wanted to stop the shooting, but Max asked me to do it again.
And woom, the crazy donkey made a rodeo ride and my actors were lying on the ground.
Kristyna mistrust by now ALL donkeys in Azerbaijan...
In the evening we shot a gondola flight over 30 metres span!
It was pretty amazing, but for us already somehow a routine.
One sentence in the screenplay affords 3 half days of shooting!
("Aya flies over the village").

AUGUST 10, 2006
Today was one of our best days.
It was terribly hot.
We shot on the hill opposite Caycaragojunu.
Temelko blindfolds Ayas eyes, puts her on a rocket and shoots her into the sky.
The shoot involved a crane, SFX-technicians and a lot of courage of Kristyna Malerova, who suffered from the heat of the engines.
But as usual, she was brave and the shoot was accomplished before sunset.

AUGUST 9, 2006
Today we mounted a 15 m high blue screen on the Olympic Complex hall (the place where we stay).
We errected the rocket and SFX-guys from Georgia blasted flames out of the rocket. Kristyna was sitting on a barber chair on the top of the rocket 3,50 m high and a crane pulled the rocket up.
Zaza had a strong windmachine directed on Kristynas clothes.
Erwin pulled the parachute with the boom of the sound guys out of Kristynas back pack.
Everything went fine, Kristyna was screaming and we made 6-8 fantastic takes.
At the end of the day we went to our desert village Caycaragojunu and filmed one shot with the 56 years old truck (shooting gallery) which was left over from yesterday, when the truck was on strike.
Good day.

AUGUST 8, 2006
The day started difficult.
The donkey we found here for replacing the one in Lahic was too small to carry Max and Kristyna together.
Then I had the usual trouble with a supporting actrice during a love scene, even she had not to undress, she refused to mimic sexual movements!
In the afternoon we catched up, shooted a nice fight scene and the the cutting of the phone cable.
But there are serious issues with our main camera.The laboratory says, there is some flickering, so we decided to send it to Tehran.
Tommorow we will shoot Blue-Screen with our B-camera.
Hopefully we will have a full functioning camera back on Thursday!

AUGUST 7, 2006
Today was a terrible day.
It was hot and we waited for stupid things.
Time was running and we shot only 4 out of six scenes.
We made a huge lunch break to avoid the midday heat, but when we restarted at 4 pm it was still boiling...

AUGUST 5, 2006
We went back to the old town of Seki and filmed Kristyna floating in the gondola over the roafs.
I wanted a shot with the camera on top of her, but it was impossible to mount the tripod before sunset.
As my cameramen George Beridze is too heavy, I was rigged and brought up with the camera.
It was quite shaky and I started to have big respect for Kristyna, who always climbs up the pole to the gondola, as if she never done anything else in her life.
Kristyna and me and the camera were quite heavy for the little gondola and I was scared, but the engineer Jakub assured us, that we will be safe.
So we floated over the beautiful old town and i filmed Kristyna looking down; a quite sensational picture!
After dinner we drove to Caragojunu. It felt spooky at night, but soon we were surrounded by the villagers, who wondered, who the hell directed 30000 watt light on their houses.
We shoot a scene with Ilko and Assun making love and getting caught by a women patrol.
As it looked suspicous, I asked my light guys to direct a strong lamp on the villagers, so that they could not see anything!

AUGUST 4, 2006
We shot in an abanndoned church, one of the few remaining churches in Azerbaijan.
We started with 6 women praying for water and then shot a scene with Temelko and Aya playing a marriage at the age of 8.
Then we went to Hotel Karavanserai, the most beautiful place in Azerbaijan and shot one scene, when three merchants look into a window of a Hammam and Aya looks in the present time into Hammam (when women decide about strike).
Our last set was a gondola construction in the old town of Seki.
Kristyna climbed 15 metres high and was pulled forth and back several times.
But cameramen Georgi Beridze decided to reshoot the scene with big light set up tommorow.....
Poor Kristyna!
In the evening we watched edited rushes from my editing room, A nice compilation, which everybody enjoyed very much!

AUGUST 3, 2006
Today we shot the final party scene in the river.
The last scene with 30 actors.
Bright sun, no shadow.
My production department had problems to supply enough drinking water and the actors went on strike.
It was half joke and half serious. I was nervous as I had to finsish at 5 pm as 8 actors were flying tonight back to their countries!!
Water came, actors worked and we finished on time! 

AUGUST 2, 2006
One of our longest and hardest days.
We shot somewhere nowhere in the desert.
It was hot and one actrice fainted.
We had a sfx-crew from Georgia today working with us and making gunshots on the windows our old bus.
But the shots we got were excellent!

AUGUST 1, 2006
I tried so hard to have a early start.
The first day in Caycaragojunu. Hot and dry!
Actors call was 6.15 h! But then we waited three hours for the bus which is in picture.
How embarrasing.
But we finished our schedule before sunset.

JULY 31, 2006
Free day.
We installed ourselves in the Olympic Komplex.
We have nice office space and rooms for costume and make up.
I went to scout last locations. We drove our BMW X3 through rivers and muddy fields and then found a marvelous location for the end scene (party at the river).
The car was covered 2 cm with mudd!
Tommorow we start at 6.45 h.
3 more days with big crew and cast and then we will be small crew again!

JULY 30, 2006
We were schedulded to move to Seki today.
But heavy rainfalls caused some stonefalls on the road to Lahic and the village became 15 hours completely isolated.
Electricity was cut and mobile phone connection slowly interrupted.
Some of the German journalists did not went back on time and had to sleep in Lahic the night to Sunday.
All this felt like an aftermath.
I smiled, because it was a free day and the rain felt like cleaning Lahic, which we had changed and painted.
We ordered bulldozers to clean the road and with five hours delay we left Lahic.
As everyone was packing, I think we did not loose time anyway.
Arrival in Seki was gorgeous. Nino Chkeidze cried, when she arrived in Karawanserai, saying, she never had been in any beautiful place in her 85 years life!
My crew is very happy with Olympic Komplex, giving them the comfort, they missed so often for more then five weeks in Lahic: water, hot water, air condition, tv.
We have huge space for costume and make up (including a 1800 square metres sport hall!).
Everyone was exhausted. I announced a free day for Monday. 

JULY 29, 2006
A BIG day.
We shot the scenes when Max is catapultet out of the earth and thrown into the sky together with Kristyna.
It was a big SFX-day. We had water fountain and all actors were involved.
8 journalists from Germany were present, thanks to my really generous sponsor BMW.
In the morning it looked very rainy, but in the afternoon it cleared enough to make a good shooting.
I interrupted the shoot in the evening and after midnight we shot our last scene in Lahic: the men falling into a shit-hole. Everything went fine.
I go to sleep.
Tommorow we go to Seki!!

JULY 27, 2006
We shot the beginning of the end sequence.
Location: village square.
The men hang Guri and Nia on the tree.
The women leave.
And we shot some shots, we couldn't finish yesterday.
Good day.

JULY 26, 2006
The toughest days of all so far.
26 shots, 40 actors.
But everything was fine, except that we had to shoot with clouds as well as with sunshine.

JULY 25, 2006
Last shooting day in Ceyhana.
Men in my film slowly became dirty.
Good scenes, good day.
I make sure, that no specific Azerbaijan pictures or props are in the frame, so that my local crew feels not offended.
The actors wrote a letter today, but I have not yet received the translation!
Second unit arrived and actor Vano and Ani from Georgia.
We must be 80 people by now.
Tommorow a TV crew from Germany arrives and on the weekend 8 more journalists.
This is by far the largest project I initiated.
And it does work.
I am happy!
In the evening we watched the movie "Lost in Oblivion".
I am happy that I have not these problems!

JULY 24, 2006
Shooting again.
Scene by scene.
With great care.
No discussions about stupid things.
Many ideas.
Location: Ceyhana (teahouse).
All men actors.
Good atmosphere.
In the evening we watched my short films in the cinema.

JULY 23, 2006
Today was a free day.
I wanted to rest.
But it became my most exhausting working day of all.
A delegation of actors from Azerbaijan asked to speak to me.
They asked me to abandon all signs which could make audience think, the film is set in Azerbaijan, including the reshoot of scenes with Azeri elements.
It was exhausting discussion with translation and it ended that they said they will bring me a letter, what I must change!
We had a Barbeque later with all crew, just the Azeri actors did not show up.
I made a speech and started suddenly crying.
I then went with Gunel, the women who takes care of the actors, to the Azeri actors.
We discussed another two hours and I tried to understand their concerns.
I promised them not to do anything which hurts their feelings, if they tell me before the shooting.
And I begged them to come. After one hour they finally agreed and I was ready to enjoy the evening.

JULY 22, 2006
This morning the men of Lahic came to the square in front of my office and asked to talk to me.
It felt like a tribunal.
I was accused of cutting the tree, shooting not appropriate scenes in front of the mosque and showing bottles of a fantasy vodka called "Lahicina" (an idea of my art department).
I apologized, promised to rename the vodka bottles, asking for consultance for every scene, which incorporates the mosque and told them, that I am thankful and want to show Lahic in the best way.
My apologizes was acknowledged and the meeting ended with handshaking.
I was afraid, that I loose the support of the village and so I was very happy, that there was some way of understanding.
We shot great scenes today, but I could not finish the schedule. In the last scene, 6 men were supposed to fall in a shithole.
The hole did not seem big enough for six people, so I made a wrap.

JULY 21, 2006
A long day.
And a difficult one.
To stage 35 actors in a scene is complicated.
And when you have to direct them in four languages, it is even more difficult.
But we managed and we got very nice shots.
We started at noon at the Ceyhana with men.
Later we moved outside on the square and shot the declaration of the strike, somehow THE key scene of the film.
It took two hours two stage the shot and then it went quite quickly.
After dinner we shot the division of the village.
I became very upset about one person who dissapeared from the set without giving notice.

JULY 20, 2006
Today was my first day with all 35 actors on set.
We have now 4 people in costume and one additional make up, which is still not enough, but the crew woke up early and dressed the actors on time.
We shot Temelkos departure with the bus.
When we started prepping, two workers started to demolish the roof in the background.
My Azeri production crew became suspicous, that the landlord did it on purpose to blackmail some money from us and refused to negociate.
But as a shooting day, or even any hour is precious for me I asked them to arrange some deal.
Also the owner of the cinema (which we rented all month) wanted additional 20 Euros from us because we shot one scene in his place.
I think it is justified (also looking at the amount!).
But my production manager started to scream with him!! Funny situations.
I also screamed, because my assitants run everywhere like crazy and often I am standing on the set alone, unable to talk to some crew and cast members!!
But we finished at 9 pm and crew and cast does enjoy the evening!

JULY 19, 2006
We started to shoot in front of our office building: The women hang Dino in a wollen sack on the tree.
I wanted the actor Otto Kuhnle to lock ridicolous: the rope behind his head, which made it quite difficult to attach the rope to Ottos mountaineering belt without to hurt him.
After three hours we rolled camera and it looked great.
Then we moved to an old empty shop in the centre of the village, with old style soviet mosaic.
Erwin and his crew dressed it like a clockmaker shop, very nicely...
Then we returned to our square and shot inside the teahouse.
Even the original location looks great, it took another three hours to finish it looking great.
We made a one take scene, with German actor Hendrick Arnst making love with Belorussian actrice Olge Nefjodova in the backroom. Bottles crashed and it went really nicely.
After hours we celebrated production designer Erwin Pribs 29th birthday.
I teased him to the office by telling him, we must talk about the schedule.
Downstairs the crew decorated the dining room and exactly at midnight we went downstairs and he was greeted by 65 people singing.
Indeed we became a big family of 35 crew and 35 cast members!
It is not out of control, but some actors misbehave towards the villagers.
One actrice went drunken through the village last night, kissing strangers!!!
I am happy, we finished shooting interiors here, because I am afraid, that the villagers do not understand the humor of artists!

JULY 18, 2006
This morning we had no water in our house.
I wanted so much to take a shower and I felt terrible...
We started shooting at 10 am with a simple scene on the square.
I wanted to be really fast, but the second location was not ready when we arrived so we started to move forth and back and lost one hour.
We shot the afternoon in the beekeeping meadow (so beautiful) and the evening we wanted to shot some bedroom scenes in a private house, where the owner started to be really suspicious and watched every shot we filmed.
We then asked him to leave the set and filmed quitely.
It was a good day.

JULY 17, 2006
I could not sleep yesterday night.
To switch from nightshoot to dayshoot in just one day is impossible.
I fall asleep very late in the morning and woke up 5 min. before crewcall.
Monday morning... It was Absurdistan.
We shot in the village Hammam. At 9 am the firetruck was supposed to be with us.
They came one hour late, without water! Finally they arrived three hours late, but instead of creating charming water effects, they ejected the water with such a pressure on my crew and equipment, that I send them away immedeatly.
We created the effects our selves.
The first shot was a flash back how beautiful life was once upon a time.
We had tons of watermelons and our charming actor Radomil played the masseur.
We then shot the contempory scenes without water.
85 year old actrice Nino Chkeidze made a speech, bringing Rosa Luxemburg back alive.
Two more scenes for the period of war between men and women finished the shooting day after a long 15 hour day of shooting.
For the first day crew members were unhappy (and they had reasons to be so).
Everyone was rewarded after wrap with a screening of a selection of rushes.
The village cinema across the square was packed and my crew was cheering!
My editor Vincent did a great job.
My crew is motivated. At this moment they party again downstairs in the office building: my costume designer from Istanbul leaves tommorow!

JULY 16, 2006
Sunday is our free day!
I used the day to prepare next week.
At 12 h I had a meeting with my little production crew (production manager Aynur, production coordinator Elnura and my two assistants Alina and Fuad).
So far they made an exellent job to run this huge ship over the stormy ocean.
But to be honest, the ocean is not so stormy. The people of Lahic are very nice.
So the only problems we had were resulting of my continous idea creating brain and the resulting changes, which I not communicate enough, or not communicate to my assistants.
I promised to be more professional!
But I also asked them to stay more aside of me, so I can tell them immediatly every new idea I have.
Because they sometimes run to bring or take actors or props or some things instead to stay on the set!!!
At 14 h I had a meeting with all actors.
They arrived in the last two weeks and were not present at my initial briefing session the day before the first day of shooting.
So I explained them in French and English (Alina translated to Russian) the schedule of the coming weeks and the rules how to behave in this village.
Some actors walk half undressed to the shower at the houses they stay.
That created enormous problems with the landlords, who are muslims.
At 15 h we went outside on the square and I tried to see, how the big scenes on the square could be arranged.
My director of photography George Beridze was not present, which made me very upset, because he promised earlier to do so.
Later I found out, he made a stroll with some girls from the crew to the nearby waterfalls.
But I don't want to complain about George, because until now, we have an excellent collaboration.
He is very accurate about the lighting (which is something I don't care so much) and does not stop me, when I change lenses or framing of the shots (which is very important for me).
Regarding light, I just make sure, my actors faces are lit and some effects from lights in the picture (practicals) are recreated by our big lights behind the camera (for instance candles or fire).
George even asks me to look through the viewfinder to finalize the shot.
This is quite new for me, as my cameramens I worked with so far prefered to make the shots themselves.
At 16 h I went with the women actrices to the Hammam, were we will shoot tommorow.
I must take care to explain a lot, as they are all actors, who want to understand everything!!
They are all big egos and I must satisfy their desire of expessing themselves.
But I also must protect my film and stop them, if they are overacting.
At 18 h we went with some cars to the canyonand had a barbeque.
This evening was one of the most beautiful ones in my life.
Actor Otto Kuhnle and me started to sing a german sailor song ("Wir lagen vor Madagaskar") and then nation by nation sang a song.
The sun went down, all my crew and cast was dancing and partying.
We came back at 23 h.
Then we went to visit a local marriage party.
That was another amazing experiencem, as it was a wild party, which no one of us would have assumed in this quite and peaceful village....

JULY 15, 2006
Week three is finished.
Today we shot really funny scenes in a bedroom, when Dino, dressed as a women is surrounded by four half naked women, who are not aware about his true identity.
In the evening we shot a scene on the village square.
We nearly had an accident with a motorbike on screen, with four armed actrices, which went out of control...
Tommorow the last five actors will arrive, and then we will have a full house!

JULY 14, 2006
I forgot to write the blog in the evening.
I apologize.
It was a long day.
I made a joke the other day, that after every shot we have a snack or a meal.
Yesterday it became true.
For the first shot in the barber shop we took three hours.
We made this shop in a empty shop.
A new location takes time: we dress and light and dress and rehearse and so on...
We then shot butcher shop. We redressed a food shop.
People start to be greedy.
One men asked me for 4 manat (3,50 Euro) that he opens his door, just to have the camera tripod on his ground...
First he refused, but money talks...
Then we went to the most beautiful bedrooms of Lahic.
The house looks not so interesting from outside, but inside there are oriental paintings on the wall.
When we finished shooting, I brought my main actors Max and Kristyna in the room to make special fotos:
She is in the bed, he wants to go to her, but she points a gun on him...
Looked great!

JULY 13, 2006
Today we shot on our square in front of the office.
We start to have scenes with 8-10 actors.
It went fine the shooting.
Since we made an arrangement with the Imam, we even can use the mosque, which is very helpful!
Actrive Olga Nefjodova arrived from Minsk this morning.
As I lack actrices with horsebackriding skills, she jumped already in frame today on the horse.
During dinner, I made a speech, thanking our four cooks, who work 17 hours a day, 7 days a week!
They received standing ovations.

JULY 12, 2006
We started to shoot in a convinient store, where the walls have the most amzing handpainted (!) wallpapers.
We dressed it as our shoe shop.
Then we wanted to shot a scene, which was supposed to be a day scene.
But my main actor Max mentioned, that we shot the previous scene in the script at night...
So I had to make a qujick schedule change and we went to an interior to shot something.
(not very professional indeed!!!).
We also tried to shoot a running chicken, but that went always in the wrong direction.
I schedule this shot for a second Unit.
In the evening we worked again with good results.
So many actors have arrived: Dace from Riga, Suzana Petricevic from Belgrade and Otto Kuhnle from Berlin.
We are a huge bunch of crazy people now!

JULY 11, 2006
A day shootingt at the smithees.
A small, but very pretty location at the main street.
We shot five men staying at the shelter...
And we shot a love scene. No nudity but very loud groaning.
Somehow delicate as villagers go by!
We worked on every detail.
Today we shot 13 hours...
One hour more, then I want to shoot.
And we even did not finish the schedule.

JULY 10, 2006
We started shooting in the smithees workshop.
Something I thought would be an easy one, turned to be difficult, as the horses leg could not be towed more then 5 minutes, otherwise it went wild!
The children were wunderful (as usual).
Nika, the 8 year old boy, was in the car all night coming from Tbilisi!
Then we shot 8 exteriors, two more than schedulded.
We shot Az and Michaela taking a bath in the main road of Lahic.
They were dressed properly, but I am still anxious not to hurt anybodys feelings here.
After dinner, the Iman from our square arrived.
The square is his property and he complained about the tree we cut.
He was a very kind man and I promised to compensate the mosque for all damages we have done on the square.
He will tell his people to help us.
Midnight we watched rushes in the cinema. I bought a video projector and Max build a screen, for watching movies.
It works nice for the rushes.
The material looks fine.
George Beridze lights the sets very beautiful.
We have a different opinion about locking the shots.
He likes to correct when actors do not catch the marks.
I prefer he does not.
We agreed to discuss this issue from now on for every shot!

JULY 9, 2006
Today was free day!
What can I write??
People slept and strolled around the village...
Since yesterday it is sunny again (because we have to shoot exteriors...).
In the evening the big soccer game took place...
I mean not France vs. Italy, Lahic against my best crew members.
We lost something 16 to 2...
Better then the other way round, I think... Because I don't want the villagers be angry about us!
I was unable to attend, because I went with Erwin to see locations.
In the evening the Georgian girls from my crtew started a spontaneous dance party in front of my office.
I am not sure, if this is a film shoot with a little bit of party beside or a big party with a little bit of filmshoot here and then...
My crew is watching soccer now, for those who didn't like, I screened rushes.
I am happy but I also see many little things I would prefer to do differently.
I go to sleep.
Week 3 starts tommorow!

JULY 8, 2006
The last day of week 2.
We started on the square.
The fire department pumped water out of a tube, for the flashback scene, when water arrived the first time.
All young girls from my team were dressed oldstyle oriental and had waterbuckets in their arms.
When the water came, they were celebrating.
Then we changed location and went 2 KM down the road to Ismaily.
In the giant canyon we shot the scene, when the Taxidriver stops and Temelko continous to walk.
And we shot, when the busdriver pees in the radiator.
Then we changed the location again and shot three scenes during magic hour, thanks to our second camera.
We prepared all three shots and were able to do it in time.
The most funny shot was Temelko puts a carrot in front of the donkey and the donkey walks to catch it.
We changed location again and shot two night scenes on the village square again.
This time we had to dress for the first time the divided village with fence and white line.
Everything went fine. But I was stressed and exhausted.
We worked 14 hours and now I go to sleep!!!

JULY 7, 2006
Actors arrived this morning from Marocco (Kaghat Azzelarab), Spain (Assun Planas) and Czech Republik (Michaela Bandi).
Kaghat "Az" and Michaela went straight to the set.
We shot interior bakery.
I love set dressing.
My art department people stuffed the place with lots of things, which we then put according to the picture in the frame.
The actors who don't shoot also hang around the location.
And today we ate outsite again.
Nice family!!
Also the first rushes arrived today, but we are too tired to watch them now!!
Shooting is still fun and I hope it will stay like this!!

JULY 6, 2006
We had a lovely day today.
In the morning we shot just three shots: Aya and Temelkos birth.
My assistant Alina played Ayas mother and my script girl Tamuna played Ayas mother.
They screemed like they had a huge orgasm.
And my actors Heldar Costa and Monica Calle were running from one bed to the other.
It was really fun.
I like to have time and to make final touches on the set decoration.
Erwin offers huge amounts of props. And every house in Lahic is like a prop store itself.
Today I had for the first time videocontrol.
My assistant cameramen from Tehran fixed it himself.
But somehow I prefer to watch the shot directly.
The monitor is just good for dressing the set.
At 9 AM actrice Neli Coraru arrived from Moldavia after a night flight.
As we still must shoot interiors for wheater reasons, she just could sleep three hours and then she was dressed and were brought to the shoot.
She had a scene with a screaming little child and she did it very good.
For us it was a torture, as screaming children are louder then airplane engines.
Sun came back to Lahic in the afternoon.
Crew and cast is in a good mood.
I am a happy director!

JULY 5, 2006
Today we started in the barn next to the art department.
We shot with sheeps, which were shaved like ultra styled poodles.
One lamb had to lick Shakos face and did it, better then any trained animal I shot with in my life!
The actors Heldar Costa and Monica Calle arrived from Lisbon.
Our family starts to get international...
My costume designer from Istanbul was very sick.
She went to the doctor of the village, who found out, that she ate fruits, from the tree, she shouldn't eat.
I received the persian version of my screenplay today. It looks wunderful.
Here in Lahic, people speak a persian accent "Tat", which only people in this village speak!
Now I try to cast the last two parts with actors from Iran.
The women require, that their hair is covered and they must not touch men...

JULY 4, 2006
Today we got back on track. We shot all scenes schedulded.
It is raining since Saturday, but that does not hurt us, as we shoot mainly interiors this week.
We shot in the house of Halima, one of the most beautiful houses of Lahic.
It is full of precious things, paintings, porcellan, fotos, just amazing.
Halimas old deft mother (her nickname is Hitler, because she screams all the time), nearly caused a serious problem.
Last week I destroyed her old ladder as it was needed badly as prop in Ayas house.
She got so furious, that my production manager Aynur had to talk four hours with her.
We promised her to fix the ladder, to buy a new one and pay her 100 dollars (which is a monthly income here) to make her calm and open us her doors today!!
Today everything went easy. And I am happy to have shot in that nice house.
We shot today with three Azeri actors, Adelet, Firengiz and Matanat.
They were really great.
But because of some misunderstanding Firengiz and Matanat got mixed up.
And now they have to play the other ones role (which suits them actually much better).
Everybody is watching soccer tonight. I hear about the frantic atmosphere in Germany from friends and I am happy to be here, and not in Berlin!
Something went wrong with the courier who was supposed to deliver the rushes.
So far we have not seen anything from the first week.
Apparently my editor is happy.
I can't wait to see something myself!!

JULY 3, 2006
The second week started with difficulties.
Our little studio set of Lenoras truck was ready but my wishes were not included.
We started late and could not finish the schedule.
It was raining anyway, so I just canceled the afternoon programme on the square.
Therefor in the evening we had a big party for Maxbirthday (again) and Nikis birthday.
Vano (the actor for Dantscho) made a lot of Georgian speeches and sang!
I am really tired!
But my cast is nearly completed and I am happy!

JULY 2, 2006
Our first free day.
It was due!
We all slept until the afternoon.
It was raining and storming.
I try to sign the last roles.
I added Assun Planas from Spain and Neli Cozaro from Moldavia to the cast.
I have actors from twelve countries now! Wow!
Ani Amiridze and Vano Ianbelidze arrived today.
He plays Dantscho, the shooting gallery owner and Ani plays his daughter.
Max had birthday at midnight and we sang that the walls were shaking.
We have rested and we are ready for week no. 2!

JULY 1, 2006
Today I felt exhausted.
But it was the last day of the week and everybody gave its best for another long night from dusk till dawn.
So did I.
It was mainly bits and pieces.
All scenes we shot yesterday on the high roof (too dangerous to walk there), we repeated today on a low roof for close ups. My assistants became really frantic again, when we shot the naked scene.
But we errected some curtains and nobody was able to watch our set.
Ayas house is combined by six different houses: entrance, yard, balcony, room and two roofs are from different houses.
It will look really special.
It is my way to create magic sets without building too much.
I made a speach during dinner to thank my crew, which is really fantastic.
They all have so much work to do, and they do it with so much passion!

JUNE 30, 2006
The best day so far.
Maybe because I was so much afraid of it.
We have cloting rules for all my women in the crew, to cover shoulders and knees.
So the inhabitants of that village will not be offended.
Today I shot Krystina undressing (100 %) on the roof of the highest building in the village.
It is a house with an oriental cupola. Kristyna looked like a goddess.
We waited until 5 am, until the first light came.
We had million of plans to distract the people, if any would have been on the street.
The moment we wanted to shoot, the houseowner came!
Aynur asked him to drive some costumes to our office building.
And he went...
And then we shot.
Kristyna looked like a goddess!
I also was scared, because Kristyna didn't feel easy about it.
But during the take, she seemed to be totally at ease.
And something else strange happened this night: the new speakers from the Mosque broke!

JUNE 29, 2006
We shift from day to night.
So during daytime we did not shoot.
I went with production designer Erwin and actrice Kristyna to scout the roof, from whereshe will jump.
Erwin left Lahic to go for the weekend to Berlin.
He took the suitcase with our material and I hope when he returns on Sunday, we can see first rushes.
In the evening we started shooting the prophecy scene.
85 years old Nino Chkeidze was adorable and worked until 6 am, like all other crew members.
It is 6.30 am and I go to sleep.
Sorry for the short blog today!

JUNE 28, 2006
It was a cloudy day, but thanks God (and to the schedule), we were inside.
My production designer Erwin overdresses every location, stuffs them full of props.
First thing in the morning, my set dresser Irakli has to take 80 percent of that stuff out.
But I have a real great choice of little and bigger things to choose from.
We shot 6 short scenes.
In the morning with 85 years old actrice Nina Chkeidze, who was really pleasant to work with.
She is so interesting person...
During the casting and in the last days here in Lahic, I was nervous, as she seems to be complicated.
She is talking a lot and sometimes without a reason she starts to cry.
But she has that little crazyness, which is so necessary for the role of Ayas grandmother.
Todays first rehearsal with Kristyna Malerova was overwhelming.
She throw herself in the arms of her grandmother, as if her entire life was on the edge.
Fantastic actrice.
I had to struggle hard with location manager Fuad to get lunch nearby the location.
He wanted the team walk to our office building. But that would made me loose at least 30 minutes.
So I insisted on delivering lunch to a nearby farmhouse.
Today we had the big generator.
Giorgi Kandelaki, the electrician from Tbilisi who spend five days at the border waiting, said, that he even spend a day in jail, because he was swimming in the river, which is in between Georgia and Azerbaijan.
We were quite fast today and even shot one scene from tomorrows schedule.

JUNE 27, 2006
I could not sleep after I woke up at 2 am!
At 4 am the speakers from the Mosque on our square wake us up.
Last week they changed the volume.
The Imam tries with all means, to turn us into good muslims.
In the morning the bus with the Georgian children arrived.
I was not able to make a choice between the best 8 children, who I shortlisted.
So I made them all come today.
But then it was really easy to choose.
One boy and one girl were bonding so strong and kuddeling all the time, that they obviously were my two little heros.
The other children were doing background action.
So nobody was crying.
All morning we were working on the kindergarten scene: Little Temelko builds little Aya a cake.
He makes it explode and two rings are revealed.
The scene will not be longer then 15 second in the film.
It was like a commercial shooting, very precise and full of details.
I shot that scene paralell on my Super 8 camera.
First of all it looks great in the flashback, and second, my 8mm-camera can run 80 frames per second, which is great for the cake!
In the afternoon, we worked a little more.
Three scenes in the school.
Apparently our generator was allowed today (!) after 5 days at the border (!!) to enter Azerbaijan.
From tommorow on, we will have as much electricity and light as we want!
In the evening I made costume tests with Nino Chkeidze, my adorable 85 years old actrice from Georgia.

JUNE 26, 2006
Since years I waited for this day.
Today we started to shoot.
I was so scared, it will not happen.
Some problems will appear.
Nothing like this.
Everything went so smooth.
We finfished after 11 hours.
We finished four scenes.
Temelko pushed a HUGE barrel over the square.
A small scene, but so sweet (he just does it to make her bathing!).
Temelko packs for the journey.
Another nice location.
Temelko in the libary (instead in his room)
Aya runs away with the donkey and shuts the door.
In the last scene the donkey was not as fast as I imagined, but it looked so good anyway.
My actors are great and so is my team.
In the evening many children arrived for tommorow.
I fall asleep early.
Now it is 3 am, I woke up to check my mails and write the blog.
Good night!

JUNE 25, 2006
This morning some workers tried to errect for us a dry tree on the village square, but they failed.
The tree is not that big, but it seems to be quite heavy.
In the morning we made more make up tests for Max.
Madona cuts the hair too good. I had to ask her to do it more rough.
Kristyna went to learn riding for donkeys.
My generator is still stucked at the border.
I ordered a small generator from Baku instead, so that we not have to postpone the shooting...
Alina and her wedding guests arrived for lunch.
She also brought a journalist from Deutsche Welle, who made a interview with me and Kristyna.
After lunch I had a three hour meeting with all head of departments.
I read through the screenplay and tried to communicate my vision of each scene.
I then made a last location tour with my cameramen George and my art director Erwin.
At 19 h was the warming up schedulded.
I waited for everyone to come and it became 20 h.
I was nervous, but it was important to me, to welcome everybody finally!
I made costume tests with Krystina in the evening.
Elnura is still sick and she wants to go to Baku tommorow.
I am scared, as my production team is really little.
But beside that, I am optimistic, that we will start shooting tommorow!

JUNE 24, 2006
Two days before shooting.
My assistant director Alina is marrying today in Baku.
My production manager Aynur and Zaur and Tora from art department went to her party.
I was against this wedding date, but some religious rules determined this crazy timing.
Location manager Fuad and production coordinator Elnura must work twice as much...
This morning, the missing sound equipment arrived.
Also the light and camera truck from Iran arrived, together with the second camera assistant.
The rental manager Ayoub Danesh came also to visit us.
He brought me a directors viewfinder, which previously was used by Stanley Kubrick!
But the truck with the generator from Georgia has not arrived. It is not allowed to enter Azerbaijan.
Some paper is missing, which we cannot get on the weekend.
Elnura, the production coordinator tried every number of important people today, without success.
Elnura works very hard and lost her voice. I am scared that she will become sick.
Ilham, our smart driver went to the border station to talk with the people, but so far no success.
And the second camera was not delivered, which is scary for me.
I have no safety net.
The morning, I went with my cameramen George Beridze to all locations, which had to be finalized.
He goes for the simple solutions, while I rather prefer to split locations and to combine different places.
My actors Max and Kristyna came with us, and it was nice seeing them on location.
In the afternoon we started make up tests with Max. I am not sure, how short we should cut his hair...
My crew is downstairs in the dining hall and laughing.
It is nice to hear them having fun.

JUNE 23, 2006, three days before shooting
I went with Max Mauff (main actor) and Kristyna Malerova (main actrice) to Azerbaijan Kinostudio.
It is a huge old Soviet style studio.
Like a dead dinosaur.
Everything falls apart.
It is sad and melancholic...
But the costume department is working.
And Mehriban has chosen hundreds of costumes, which today were packed on a truck to be transported to Lahic today.
Alina organised a second children casting for little Aya and little Temelko.
It was good, to have big Aya and big Temelko in the room, so I could see directly, if the children looked right or not.
But then I was more keen to find kids, who could act naturally and who were not too shy.
We then went to Lahic.
It was nice, to see Kristyna and Max discovering the village... their village.
So far everybody has beed very much exited, when coming here.
I feel like someone, who found a treasure and now I am showing it to the public...
And today many people arrived from Georgia.
They had a long journey, because their cars were stopped at the border.
Nino Chkeidze, the 85 year old actrice was among them, 10 hours in the car!
When they arrived, the situation reminded me instantly to "Day for Night", the film, which made me decide to make movies...
A film crew arriving from different places.
I am really happy!
Now the presence of my crew in the village is quite visible.
My art department started to make changes.
The big tree on the village was cut and it looks terrifying!
I hope, we will be able to plant something, when we leave!

JUNE 22, 2006
In the morning I went with my driver Ramid to Baku. Some people complained about him, but I think he is good. He rather drives too careful,which is better then the other way round.
And he speaks english. It was the first time I drove with the sponsored BMW X3.
BMW supported my films from my early first year in film school and now they even do it here, at the end of the world, where I really need it.
Very generous, as in my film is no place for any modern vehicle!
In Baku I met my cameramen George Beridze, who arrived from the camera test in Tehran.
No bad feelings about the argument we had earlier this month. I really like him and I am happy he came.
I then had casting with children.
But the place we wanted to do it was locked.
So we did it outside in a restaurant.
Then soldiers were coming, because next door was some presidential residence and they wanted to know, what we were filming!!
I went to Excelsior Hotel and mobile phone operator BAKCELL in a last attempt to find sponsorship. They seemed both interested!
At 21 h my main actors and my sound guys arrived.
I was too nervous and stayed downtown with Alina in a cafe, while my drivers and Gunel went to take them.
They had to wait two hours, because the soundequipment got lost.
Just thoose two suitcases...
I wonder if we ever get it back!

JUNE 21, 2006
This morning the catering truck arrived.
I bought it three months ago from Sarah Wiener, who has the best catering company in Germany.
It is a small truck.
Zaur drove it all the way from Berlin via Italy and a ferry to Greece, Turkey, Georgia to Azerbaijan.
The last 10 Kilometers to Lahic (including the passage through one river) was the most difficult part of the trip.
The french company Catering International Service (CIS) renovated the truck and will provide the next 9 weeks my crew with full catering service.
I insisted to have a Georgian chef. In this region, Georgian food is very famous for it's great taste.
CIS is working mainly for oil companies.
I explained the chef the specialities of film catering.
I was storyboarding today.
From last year, when I made the first storyboard with Guram Navrozashvili, until today, many scenes changed.
And I hope to adapt the storyboard before the shooting starts (in FOUR days !!).

JUNE 19, 2006
7 more days to go before shooting.
It was a cloudy today.
When we had dinner a few raindrops were falling and it became chilly in the evening...
As long the sun shines from next week, I don't mind.
My DOP was supposed to our new agreement to fly to Tehran today, to check the camera equipment.
I wait to hear, if he arrived...
We try to anticipate all problems which could occur during the shooting and find back up solutions for every case.
We have two camera bodies and today I rented a second generator, in case the first one will break down.
Elnura spoke to Azerenergy and electricity in Lahic became better, but no way to rely on it.
I can't reach Svetlana Prus, the fantastic actrice from Kiev.
My casting director wanted to make the deal with her, but they started arguing and now I cannot reach her!

JUNE 18, 2006
We had some visitors from Baku last night and were drinking wine for the first time here.
So today we slept until 9 am and started late.
Anyway, it was Sunday!
Linda, my assistant producer in Berlin, adapted all week the storyboard drawings to the new screenplay.
She works long hours.
I sometimes receive mails at 11 pm from her!
Tora and me started to draw the sketches of the new scenes.
It makes me feel prepared!
Erwin has the toughest job.
He must prepare 5 sets at a time. His crew is full in action.
We can rent the trailer for the shooting gallery for 1300 dollars.
But Erwin really hates the idea of a trailer.
He wants the old truck alone. I see advantages and disadvantages.
Tommorow we have a art department budget meeting and then I will decide about it...
Nino films all preparations.
I look after her, because to shoot a documentary film is not that easy.
I trained her one hour today how to make interviews on camera.
Very difficult if you are alone, without cameramen.
Especiallly Art department gives her a hard time.
They do not support her! This is sad, because their work is the most interesting at the moment.
And when the documentary is finished, Art department will complain, why they are not featured enough!
Alina made children casting in the village.
But I feel, the children are not as confident as the children in Baku.
We got the permition today to cut all branches from the tree on the village square.
Apparently the tree will survive this torture!
This Sunday was quite a good working day for us!

JUNE 17, 2006
Fuad and Aynur started to go around the village to make agreements with the house owners where we want to shoot.
A few think, we are 20th Century Fox and ask for a fortune. But I am optimistic, that we will find an agreement with everybody.
Elnura and Alina came in the evening with the sponsored BMW jeep.
I asked them to park outside the village, so that the villagers not get the impression, we are 20th Century Fox!!
Erwin ordered the first truck with building material.
We found a room inside a abbandoned engineer school, which we use as a studio.
We will build the interior of the shooting gallery there.
The electricity situation is still poor.
I think about bringing more generators here, not only for the light.
Also our caterers need electricity...
It is only 8 days from shooting.
I have to finalize the cast.
It is midnight and that is the time, when the local internet cafe closes and they divert the line to my office.
Now I start to get in contact with the world.
Since I lost my mobile, the internet is my way of communicating with outer space!

JUNE 16, 2006
We woke up at 8 and had breakfast.
The sight over Seki from the charming Panorama-hotel is stunning.
That is why I will shoot all gondola scenes in Seki, to virtually mount these amazing roofs on my houses, which I shoot in Lahic.
And around this combined village, I add the breathtaking landscape of Caycaragojunu!
I create my fantasy world!
Our driver took us to Ismaili. He refused to drive us with his Ford Transit to Lahic.
We found a driver with an old russian Gazelle who was happy to do that job.
Before I went to an internet cafe, where I could read the last time mails with regular speed.
My italian actors still make fuzz about the salary.
I start to send out offers to the wunderful actors I met in Tehran.
They are equally talented, just the communication will be more difficult, as they don't speak english.
During our absence from Lahic, my art department guys Tora and Zaur found a military trailer!
In Lahic!
While we send people all around the country and desperatly searching for it!
They find it a couple of steps away from the house I am staying!
What a miracle!
Erwin already convinced me, to have a two-in-one solution.
A shooting gallery and no trailer.
Time was running, so I gave up.
But this is a sign that Lenora has a trailer!!
Then we were able to visit the old mosque nearby.
Maybe we will be allowed to use it as well!
I am relaxed.
Not nervous at all.
Actually this makes me nervous!
My crew is getting along very good.
We have our meals together in the garden of the art department.
These meals serve the function of discussing our work.
There is still a lot to do, but we will do it!

JUNE 15, 2006
We tried to leave Seki in the morning, but then it took a while to get the few props and costumes from the theatre.
They wanted first 300 dollars, Erwin wanted to pay 25 dollars.
After some long discussions, we got them for free!
Sergej went to the market to scout building materials, but could not find anything, which was not for sale in Lahic.
I showed Erwin the old abandoned church.
Then we picked up my two local assistants Taleh and Arif.I found them last year at the university, with a flyer.
We took them with us to Ceycaragojunu.
It is the first time I visited the village in summer.
It was quite hot.
Fortunately, we only need to shoot few days there.
We dressed Taleh, Arif, Sergej and the driver like workmen and took pictures near the pipe.
It was already four when we drove to Ilisu.
We arrived at five.
It took us one hour to find a military truck, which drove us up the mountain, through deep rivers to Dagestan border region.
We had to walk another hour and cross the river 20 times on little bridges, like circus artists.
Finally we arrived at the cave.
Somehow dissapointing after the adventorous travel.
But at least we have a lot of stunning shots for the making of documentary!
It was too late to return to Lahic.
We have stopped again in Seki.
I try another hotel, Panorama.
We are tired.
It is midnight and we will sleep!

JUNE 14, 2006
The day started with a phone call from driver Ilham.
The old bus he bought as a picture vehicle had an accident and crashed!
Fortunately no body was hurt!
But we have to find another bus!
We left at 9 am with Zaurs russian military jeep (1960 model) the village and went down to the main road BAKU-SEKI, which takes one hour.
At the main road, production manager Aynur Mustafayeva arrived with a minibus from Baku.
We went to Ismayli to the provincial govenor.
We had to wait one hour in front of his room for our audience.
But then the meeting was very pleasant.
We continued to drive to Seki, where we met Jakube, the new Gondola builder.
We showed him the places where to build the gondolas.
Then we had our inaugural meeting with the chief of the Seki rayon. He was equally nice, promised his support and gave me an oriental painting as present.
Our next meeting was at the Seki theatre.
The actors were all waiting.
I introduced the project, but could not see a suitable actor.
We were allowed to see the prop shop.
There we found some nice pieces (a old gun for example) for the film.
We checked in at the beautiful Hotel Karawanserei.
I think, it is the most beautiful hotel on earth.
Here my actors will stay.
I met the owner to finalize the deal.
His booked kalendar determined originally the shooting schedule in April!
We had dinner at the Olympic Komplex, the hotel were my crew will stay.
It is a very strange modern place, compared to Karawanserai and the old city of Seki.
But when we will arrive here after our shoot in Lahic in August, I am sure the crew will enjoy the comfort.

JUNE 13, 2006
This morning the assistant mayor helped us to see houses, which are abandoned.
We also went to the carpet factory.
This factory is such a contrast to the rest of the village.
50 women are working there in a big hall on old machines.
I would like to include this place in the film, but don't know how.
But we found some old amazing props in the offices.
Today we received the information, that the Minister of Culture of Azerbaijan signed a letter of support.
Tommorow we will go to the province chief (Rayon) to obtain the general permition of shooting.
With this permition all local authorities will help us!
It was the first cloudy day and temperature was very nice.
Fred had stomach ache today.
I am not sure, if the women who cooks for us cleans the plates with hot water.
I am so afraid of unclean food and sick crew.
But my catering truck is already in the workshop and from next week we will have our own cooks here.

JUNE 12, 2006
In the morning we went to the mayor.
He said Lahic starts to have a water problem, as all house owners building showers for us!!
This is too funny!!
Everybody in the village is very nice.
I go up and down the tiny main street and people invite me in their houses.
They show me their rooms and want me to shoot there.
They invite me for tea and give me fresh bread.
I climb on their roofs and they smile!
In the afternoon my location manager Fred arrived from Paris.
His real name is Fuad Gasimov.
He is a filmmaker himself, with Azeri origins.
He called me one month ago, saying he was interested to work for me.
I was happy to have an Azeri speaking professional and hired him!
He seems to be smart and experienced!
In the evening Elnura throw the first party, inaugarating our nice office.
We are now 9 people.
And every day one more is coming...

JUNE 11, 2006
Today I spend all day with production designer Erwin Prib in my new "office" and discussed the shooting schedule for our five weeks in Lahic.
I finally have the feeling to do creative work. We discussing logistic issues as well, but everything touches the creative result of the film.
We found many scenes, which can be set at the many magnificent places in Lahic, which so far where not thought of by us.
For instance, the tiny libary at the main street, or the very funny roof at the post office.
For meals we go to Javids house, where the art department stays.
Javids wife and her two girls are cooking quite a variety of meals, much better then the food I ate before here.
After dinner, I went to the internet cafe and wrote a long mail to my production manager Aynur Mustafayeva in Baku.
The moment, I wanted to send it, electricity went of in Lahic, like so often here!
It is romantic, when you visit Lahic and no light works.
Everybody uses candles or little generators.
When you live here, it is annoying.
And to work seriously is impossible.
So we must buy generators.
But it is not in the budget!

JUNE 10, 2006
Today I spend all day walking with my art department through Lahic, visiting the houses and places where we want to shoot.
My art director Erwin has some amazing ideas of building and constructing tubes, fassade coverings, towers for gondolas, which for my instinct will exceed the budget.
I rather prefer to use the given situations and places and use them for my film.
The only thing we all don't like is the green tree on the square, which unfortunately we cannot take away.
Sergej seems to have a very distinguish knowledge about building things.Nikola focusses on designing stuff.
So they seem to harmony.
Elnura is very fast in understanding the problematics of filmproduction, even if it is her first film job.
She never has a negative attitude like all these old experienced people, who always say "Impossible!".
There is a lot of large things we want to do here.
A fountain on the village square, the earth breaks into two parts etc.
We will make it!

JUNE 9, 2006
I am in Lahic!
Heaven on earth!
The most beautiful village on this planet!
Making this film is so hard, but here I know that all the pain will be rewarded!
We left Baku at 11 am, after some meetings and last contract signings...
Alexander Shamis came with us. I met him yesterday at the party of the German embassy.
The company he works for, SEEPEX, apparently is one of the biggest pump-builders in the world.
If they provide us pumps, then we will have a grande finale!!
At 3 pm we arrived here.
My art department crew was having lunch in their nice courtyard.
The sun was shining and the temperature is really modest!
Elnura and me went to the hotel.
The owner is so happy, that after some years of building it, he finally can finish constructing it with my advance payment!
Elnura and me choose the rooms, where we will eat, have our office and where costume and make up will be!
It is so nice, just next to the square, where we will shoot!
Nino from Georgia already shoots the making off.
I had to take her aside and ask her to change her sexy short trousers to something more appropriate for the village here!
Now I am sitting in a internet cafe!
I can even connect my laptop.
Everybody congratulates me for Germany won the soccer match today.
I did not even watch it!

JUNE 8, 2006
Today I slept until 9 am! And I did not even hear Elnura ringing the bell.
Finally she called me and I woke up!
We visited with the french caterer Gerard my little catering truck, which had arrived after 10 days Baku!
Gerard will refurbish the car and provide the whole catering machinery!
He is a very symphatic person.
CIS, the company he works for, does catering all around the world.
Here in Azerbaijan they work for the oil platforms. But they have experience in the film business!
At 11 h we met Klaus Keller, the cultural attache at the German Embassy.
He promised us to help, if needed, which is a good thing to know!
At 13 h I went to the film studio and met my seven Azeri actors.
They already received yesterday the Azeri translation of their contracts and were upset.
They thought, I would pay them much less then my European actors.
I explained them, what Low budget means and that everybody on this film earns much less, then usually.
But I had to raise their fees and finally we shaked hands!
At 17 h I signed the contract with CIS.
They even have a food poisoning insurance!
Shall that make me happy or shall that make me nervous??
At 18 h I signed the contract with Ayoub Danesh for the Camera from Iran.
He is such a sweet men and I trust him, as the contract not really gives indications what happens IF...
At 19 h there was a reception on the roof of the German Embassy on the occasion of the Oil Fair in Baku.
Michael Nosiadek (German-Azeri-Business-Association) introduced me to a men, who might sponsor BIG pumps for the fountain at the end of my film...
I will see...
At 20 h I met Alina.
She will marry two days before my shooting starts and wants everybody to come to Baku for the party.
That worries me!!
It is only midnight and I can sleep!
Tommorow finally I will go to Lahic!!

JUNE 7, 2006
Ilham picked me up at 7 am.
Together with Gunel we went to Quba.
An old russian Jeep was waiting for us, who took us a real crazy road into the mountains.
The river Ag Chai sometimes disappears in some tunnels. These places could serve as underground river.
But the access will be quite difficult, as we had to climb down 50 metres.....
On the way back we looked for old busses and trailers (Lenoras trailer).
We found one bus for 1200 Dollars, but Erwin send me an SMS, that he prefers to rent it.
I don't understand, how this will be possible, as we make this bus into a pile of scrap!!

JUNE 6, 2006
Today was a sunny day.
Every day so far was sunny, but the sun reached my heart!
Zaur arrived with my truck at 5 am in Tbilisi.
He was in a good mood, even that he spend so far 10 days driving and waiting at border stations!
At 7 AM I saw the miniature rocket test: WHHHOOOOOOM !
This little thing took off like a space shuttle.
Nikola, the miniature builder, is a genious.
At 8 AM I took the plane to Baku.
Elnura picked me up and we went to the studio to visit Mehriban and to look at costumes.
The costumes shop is a paradize for me.
I think we could find everything there: uniforms, military stuff and old fashioned dresses!
Later I had meetings with producers, translators, drivers and photographers.
And I received an email from my Cameramen... He will come!! Three days late, but that is not a problem!
I am quite happy!

JUNE 5, 2006
I am sitting in a custom office in Tbilisi and try to get a document for my truck driver in Sarpi.
I have to postpone my journey to Baku.
I need to see a lawyer today to have a letter send to Georgi Beridze.
Producing a film is like trying to keep a sinking ship swimming.
Everywhere are holes.
You try to close one, two more are opening up.
Today I just tried to fix problems which appeared yesterday.
I spend hours in stupid custom offices in Tbilisi.
But nobody was willing to help me.
The German Embassy is on holiday (Pfingsten).
Finally I gave up and gave my driver the order to put all stuff in a Georgian truck I rented, who now is driving everything to Azerbaijan. And my truck follows him empty.
Welcome to Absurdistan!
I went to a lawyer who wrote George Beridze a letter.
In case he will not appear, he must pay 20.000 Euros.
But my problem, who will be DOP, is still unsolved.
I need a russian speaking guy.
Everyone else is lost here.
Ani starts to have issues about the nude scene.
To be more correct, her parents have some problems with it.
I want her to be Lenora, so hopefully she can convince her parents that she can come.
She is 21!
I signed some contracts, but the day was really not very productive.
I was supposed to be in Baku by now!
Now I am still in Georgia!

JUNE 4, 2006
Am I lost in La Mancha?
Today my cameramen George Beridze wrote me an Email, telling me (three weeks before the shoot), that he is finishing another movie first and wants to start one week after shooting starts!
It is a deja-vu for me, 1998 one famous German producer informed me three weeks before beginning of shooting of "Tuvalu", that Chulpan Khamatova will not come to my shooting as the shooting of "Luna Papa" was delayed.
With the help of a Russian law firm it was expensive, but not difficult to make the producers understand, that a signed contract is not any piece of toilet paper.
I am not so sure this time, if my Georgian cinematographer will realize the consequences of breaking our contract so late!
I am truly disappointed.
George Beridze was the first I signed a contract with.
One year ago (!).
Because in this region, he is the only one.
We worked two weeks on the storyboard.
I hired his entire crew.
I don't understand, why he is doing this to me!
My truck is stopped again.
Now at the Georgian border.
They don't want to let him through...
Hopefully I can do something tommorow!
But also good things happened.
I saw a test of the rocket ignition.
I saw many costumes Teona bought.
I saw a nice miniature of the cave, Vaja wants to build.
I signed a contract with him.
And I signed a contract with Keti, the still photographer.
I worked half the night, drafting the final contracts with the actors.
It is 4 am.
I go to sleep!

JUNE 3, 2006
Today Tamuna, Zaza (a speologist)and Shota, the driver left at 7 am in the morning to Radsha-region.
For 350 Kilometers, we needed 7 hours.
We wenttwohours into thecave.
There was a nice waterfall.
Tamuna and Zaza posed as Ayas parents, for the photo, which will hang in the school.
It was fantastic.
The drive back was 8 hours.
I am dead and will sleep now!

JUNE 2, 2006
I arrived in Tbilisiat 4 am in the morning.
Customs asked me if the equipment in my suitcases was new.
I lied and could go through!
My scriptgirl Tamuna Kandelaki picked me up.
Very brave!
Ichecked in this amazing Hotel Keria, with the biggest rooms on earth.
It is like a huge flat, my room!
I had meetings allday!
The famous Vaja Djalagania came.
He showed me drawings of the set decoration "Underground waterfall".
Very beautiful.
I am very happy, he will do this construction.
Nino Dzamashvili cameand I gave her the new videocamera.We signed a contract.
She willshoot the making of.
Kate came and she took the Digital still camera.
We signed a contract for still photography.
Including Tamuna, three students of my short film "Georgian Summer" will go from Georgia to Azerbaijan to work on my film.
Now this workshop pays off very nicely for me.
Madona came and took the big make-up case with the sponsored Revlon-products.
I was like santa claus and gave presents all day.
I met Irakli at the Goethe Institute.
If Erwin wants, he will go to Lahic and help in art department.
Then Vano came.
He will be Dantscho.
And I met Ani Amiridze (actrice from "Georgian Summer"), who will be Lenora.
She was nervous about the nude scene, but I could explain her that it will be shot very innocent!
It is midnight, I go to sleep.

JUNE 1, 2006
31000 feet above Hungary.
I am sitting in the plane from Munich to Tbilisi.
I am travelling with 6 pieces of luggage.
And I have my screenplay ready! (How often did I say this during these last weeks... "this is the final version...")
Ahmet Golbol did a great job. He really finished the script, shaped all these characters, who did not even have names three months ago!
He kept on throwing ideas on me, even when I rejected them, without giving a reason.
Slowly we started to understand each other and more and more ideas were hitting exactly the right sense of humor.
For three month I will be gone.
If I am successful I return on September 1 with a finished film...
Before million problems have to be solved, 20 actors from 14 countries will fly to Azerbaijan.
30000 metres of film have to exposed to light, Studiosets have to be constructed.
What have I done all these last five years??
Why does it seem to me, that everything is still not ready?
What did I do all these years?
Why do I still not know which actors will play some of the major roles?
Why don't I have a production manager?
Why don't I have a producer in Baku?
In three weeks and three days, I plan to hit the first slate!
No agreement with the camera rental has been signed.
Not one Euro of my financiers has arrived on my account!
Where did I get all the money from, to pay 28 casting directors, my location scouting in 10 countries?
I received a New Talent grant from the MEDIA programme of the European Union.
28.000 Euros. Where did I got all the other fund from?
One of my financiers told me today, that they did not even start to check my documents.
When will the send me money?
When I finished the shoot?
Is my name DEUTSCHE BANK?
By the way, I tried to borrow some money from the Banks, where I have accounts.
Dresdner Bank refused to give me 50.000 Euros.
HypoVereinsbank gave me 100.000 Euros, but I must pay interest PLUS 2000 Euros fee for...
I can't remember for what.
I had no choice.
My biggest financier said: give us a confirmation letter that you bought all necessary insurances.
The insurance said: "pay us 14.000 Euros, and we send this letter".
So at least Hypovereinsbank will earn some money from this budget.
Everybody else had to come down with their fees to meet my budget.
I am thankful.
Somehow my German crew understands better, what does Low Budget Filmmaking mean.
For my Azerbaijan and Georgian crew, I am this big German producer, who they ask ten time the money, a busdriver earns.
But if I pay everybody the same money, then my french actrice will think, why do I earn just the money to pay my appartment, when my colleague from Moldavia can buy a house after the shoot.
There is no fair payment in a unfair world!!
The last day were really hectic.
One week ago Zaur came from Baku.
We loaded the little truck I bought from Sarah Wiener Catering with HMI-projectors, Kodak-negative, fridge, props and office stuff.
He left six days ago to Leipzig, Ingolstadt, Ancona, took the ferry to Greece and arrived this morning at the Turkish border.
The Turkish custom officers did not let him in.
I had to make Sarah Wiener to go to a notarius and sign a authorisation, that the truck was allowed to go.
Then I had to wire 1400 Euros deposit.
They refused to accept the ATA carnet, which I made at the Chamber of Commerce in Berlin for exactly this reason. Will we ever get the deposit back?
Once the screenplay was finished Assistant Producer Linda Kornemann and me started finalising the shooting-schedule. We finished one hour before the departure of my plane...
We throw the luggage into the car and rushed to the airport.
Now I am heading for this very big journey...


